[Music]
Dell just announced two new laptops to
their XPS lineup the XPS 14 and 16 now
the design language of these two
products were derived from the XPS 13
plus from the past this has now been
renamed or rebranded to the XPS 13 uh
but the two new ones are the XPS 14 and
16 so these are the two devices here the
one on the top is in a platinum silver
color and underneath is the graphite
color so the 14inch is the smaller one
now when they first showed this I
thought what is the point of having a
14in device over the 13in device right I
mean they're so similar in size but it
stems to just one main thing performance
so on the XPS 13 product you were never
able to configure this with a discrete
GPU if you wanted something from Nvidia
for something that's more graphically
capable was not possible because you
just this is such a small and Tiny form
factor can't do it but they've been able
to do it into the 14 inch now on this
device you can get up to an RTX 4050 but
look at the magic of this look at that
thing this is a beautiful looking
interior so like the previous devices
there's no physical touchpad or visibly
physical touchpad it's all built into
this glass bottom panel here uh you just
see real quickly you have a completely
normal trackpad experience but all of
that clicking is a haptic feedback it's
not like a physical thing that moves up
and down and you also have this lattice
keyboard that is very clean looking I
still think this is one of the nicest
looking interior designs to a laptop and
also you have that top row for your
function keys and media control keys and
because there's a little more room on
the 14-in device you now have
front-facing speakers that are visible
so on the XPS 13 product just going to
place it right on top here there were no
speakers that you could see they were
underneath the keyboard so the audio
quality wasn't as good on the 14in they
actually sound a little bit better now
because this is a pre-production unit I
can't kind of demo it properly at least
not with the confidence that I would
like but just for my ears these do sound
noticeably better than the 13in uh now
in terms of the actual performance this
is running a meteor Lake chip Intel's
newest and most energy efficient chip
and you also get slightly increased
wattage on this larger device compared
to the 13-in but also new for this year
is an upgraded webcam so if you seen my
previous video on the XPS 13 plus you
did not have great webcam quality
because of the super thin bezel it's now
improved to a 1080p resolution with
noticeably better image quality also the
bezels on the screen are still super
thin just like the whole XPS family but
look at that man that is a super super
clean 14-in display now the typing
experience is largely the same compared
to the previous generation of this
lattice keyboard but one thing I noticed
just as I was shooting it the XPS 13 uh
the 13 plus that I have here from the
previous gen it actually has has a
larger width of keyboard than the 14
even though this is a 13-inch device
that's technically smaller this keyboard
is a little bit wider than the 14 it's
only because of these Edge Keys like on
the 13-inch because there was no
speakers on the side they could just
extend these Edge Keys all the way right
to the trim but here because of the
speakers they've had to kind of keep
them constrained so if you actually
compare them the 13-in actually has a
slightly larger keyboard or wider
keyboard than the 14 so so typing on
these super clean keyboards is pretty
fast to get used to but I don't think my
top speed is as fast on this type of
keyboard as like a traditional laptop
keyboard so this device here the XPS 16
is my favorite of the bunch primarily
because it has the most power this goes
up to an RTX 470 equipped configuration
and again super clean keyboard super
clean trackpad with the super clean
lightup function keys up top uh I think
this is just like such a nice looking
device plus the color it's like this
like dark gray I've always liked this
graphic color they had on the XPS
products the 16inch obviously has its
larger screen and also maintains the
very high image quality that You' expect
from an XPS product but you also get
higher wattage components in this larger
chassis because there's a little more
space in there more powerful cooling you
can pump up the wattage on the CPU and
GPU now keep in mind that all this
Hardware is pre-production so some of
those internal components may change on
the final units uh but one other thing
the keyboards here there's this like
button here that looks a little bit
different and this is to launch
Microsoft's co-pilot right now this is
just a sticker so it looks a little bit
strange but eventually in the future the
production versions of this will have an
actual co-pilot logo on that key right
now this is just the control key with
the sticker on top uh so real quickly I
just want to show the ports on it so on
the 14 and 16 they share basically the
same ports on the right we have a micro
SD a headphone jack and a USBC and then
on the left side we have a PIR pair of
USC's now in terms of the power supply
for both of these there's 130 WT for the
16in and then 100 watt for the 14in but
yeah that's just an early look at the
new XPS 14 and 16 I think these are very
nice looking devices with seemingly very
solid performance with the new meteor
Lake Hardware inside okay hope you guys
enjoyed this
video